# OS-Assignment
5.39) Exercise 4.22 asked you to design a multithreaded program that estimated pi using the Monte Carlo technique. In that exercise, you were asked to create a single thread that generated random points, storing the result in a global variable. Once that thread exited,the parent thread performed the calcuation that estimated the value of pi. Modify that program so that you create several threads, each of which generates random points and determines if the points fall within the circle. Each thread will have to update the global count of all points that fall within the circle. Protect against race conditions on updates to the shared global variable by using mutex locks. 

4.22) An interesting way of calculating pi is to use a technique known as Monte Carlo, which involves randomization. This technique works as follows: Suppose you have a circle inscribed within a square, as shown in Figure 4.18.(Assume that the radius of this circle is 1.) First, generate a series of random points as simple (x, y) coordinates.These points must fall within the Cartesian coordinates that bound the square. Of the total number of random points that are generated, some will occur within the circle. Next, estimate pi by performing the following calculation: 

                              pi = 4 × (number of points in circle) / (total number of points)
  
  Write a multithreaded version of this algorithm that creates a separate thread to generate a number of random points. The thread will count the number of points that occur within the circle and store that result in a global variable. When this thread has exited, the parent thread will calculate and output the estimated value of pi. It is worth experimenting with the number of random points generated. As a general rule, the greater the number of points, the closer the approximation to pi. In the source -code download for this text, we provide a sample program that provides a technique for generating random numbers, as well as determining if the random (x, y) point occurs within the circle. Readers interested in the details of the Monte Carlo method for estimating pi should consult the bibliography at the end of this chapter. In Chapter 5, we modify this exercise using relevant material from that chapter. 
